Think about not the whole wheel, but just the little piece that's underneath the duct tape. So here that piece comes rolling over the top and at this point you blow on it with a puff of air. Forgetting about the rest of the wheel, what happens to that little piece that's under the duct tape? It must want to go that way because you banged on it like that. It's already going down like that. And what about the next piece? Same thing. Next piece, same thing. So the only thing that can happen is that the wheel goes over like that. And so now you'll never wonder again because you're thinking about the problem in the right way and it's demonstrated by the use of a prop. You can try this after we're done. Another example I like to remember is one from when I was taking 801. Alan Lazarus was the instructor at the time and he was talking about the conservation of energy, kinetic and potential. And there was a long wire in the ceiling in 26-100 attached to a much bigger steel ball, but one not unlike this. And Lazarus took the ball up against the wall like this. He put his head flat against the wall to steady himself and then he let go. And the pendulum takes many seconds to go over and back and then gently kisses Lazarus's nose. And so you have many seconds to think, this guy really believes in the conservation of energy. I do not try this at home. The problem is that the first time you do this, you may not just let go. There's a natural human tendency to push. So that's a little bit on the subject of props. So you know, it's interesting, whenever surveys are taken, students always say more chalk, less PowerPoint. And why would that be? Props are also very effective. Why would that be? I'll give you my lunatic fringe view on this. It has to do with what I would call empathetic mirroring. When you're sitting up there watching me right on the board, all those little mirror neurons in your head, I believe, become actuated and you can feel yourself writing on the blackboard. And even more so, when I talk about this steel ball going that way and this way, you can feel the ball as if you were me. And you can't do that with a slide. You can't do it with a picture. You need to see it in a physical world. That's why I think that, oh yes, of course, there are speed questions involved too that have to be separated out. But I think the empathetic mirroring is why props and the use of a blackboard are so effective. Well, let's see. Oh yes, there is one more thing by way of the tools, and that has to do with the use of slides. I repeat, I think they're for exposing ideas, not for teaching ideas, but that's what we do in a job talk or conference talk. Expose ideas, we don't teach them. So let me tell you a little bit about my views on that. I remember once I was in Terminal A at Logan Airport. I'd just come back from a really miserable conference and the flight was really horrible. It was one of those that feels like an unbalanced washing machine. And for the only time in my life, I decided to stop on my way to my car and have a cup of coffee and relax a little bit. And as I was there for a few minutes, someone came up to me and said, are you Professor Winston? I think so, I said. I don't know. I guess I was trying to be funny. In any event, he said, I'm on my way to Europe to give a job talk. Would you mind critiquing my slides? Not at all, I said. You have two minutes. How did you know, he said, thinking perhaps I'd seen a talk of his before. I hadn't. My reply was, because it's always true. There are always too many slides, always too many words. So let me show you some extreme examples of how not to use slides. Well, for this demonstration, I'm going to use a slide that I've been using for a long time. Well, for this demonstration, I need to be way over here. And when I get over here, then I can start to say things like, one of the things you shouldn't do is read your transparencies. People in your audience know how to read, and reading will just annoy them. Also, you should be sure that you have only a few words on each transparency, and that the words are easy to read. And I hope they're driving you crazy, because I'm committing all kinds of crimes. The first of which is that there are too many words on the slide. Second of which is I'm way over there, and the slide's way over there. So you get into this tennis match feeling of shifting back and forth between the slide and the speaker. You want the slides to be condiments to what you're saying, not the main event or the opposite way around. So how can we fix this? Step number one is to get rid of the background junk. That's always a distraction. Step number two is to get rid of the words. When I reduce the words to these, then everything I read a previous time, I'm not licensed to say because it's not on the slide. I'm not reading my slides anymore, but I'm saying what was written on the slides in a previous example. So what else can we do to simplify this? Well, we can get rid of the logos. We don't need them. Simplification. What else can we do? Get rid of the title. Now I want to talk to you about some rules for slide preparation. I'm telling you the title. It doesn't have to be up there. By reducing the number of words on the slide, I'm allowing you to pay more attention to me and less to what's written on the slide. I mentioned it before, we have only one language processor and we can either use it to read stuff or to listen to the speaker. And so if we have too many words on the slide, it forces people in the audience to read this stuff and not listen. A student of mine did an experiment a few years ago. He taught some students some web-based programming ideas. Half the information was on slides. He said the other half. And then for a control group, he reversed it. And the question was, what did the subjects, that is a freshman in his fraternity, what did the subjects remember best? What he said or what they read on the slide? And the answer is, what they read on the slide. When their slides have a lot of material on it, they don't pay attention to the speaker. In fact, in the after action report, one of the subjects said, I wish you hadn't talked so much. It was distracting. Well, the last item is eliminate clutter. Now, here's some clutter. No reason even for those bullets. So the too many words problem is a consequence of a crime Microsoft has committed by allowing you to use fonts that are too small. So you should all have a sample slide like this. So you should all have a sample slide like this that you can use to determine what the minimum font size is that's easily legible. Shibu, what do you think of those? What's that? Yeah, minimum, maybe. Yeah, he says 40 or 50. I think it's about right. 35 is if you get too small. Not necessarily because you can't read it, but because you're probably using it to get too many words on the slide. What other crimes do we have? Well, we have the laser pointer crime. And for that, I really want, you know, in the old days, when we didn't have laser pointers, we used wooden ones. And people would go waving these things around and pretty soon it became almost like batons were like.