It's Han's Whirling Contest. So here's what he recommended in the old days for dealing with this kind of pointer. Here's an example of use of a prop. Jim Glass up there saw this talk about 20 years ago and said, oh, yeah, I remember that talk. That's the one where you broke the pointer. It's amazing how props tend to be the things that are remembered. Well, now, we don't have phenomenal pointers anymore. We've got laser pointers. It's a wonder more people aren't driven into epileptic fits over this sort of stuff. But here's what tends to happen. Look at that. It's a lovely recursive picture, and I can become part of it by putting that laser beam right on the back of my head up there. And what do you see? You see the back of my head. I have no eye contact, no engagement, nothing. I was sitting with a student watching a talk one day, and she said, you know what? We could all leave, and he wouldn't know. So what happens when you use a laser pointer? You can't use a laser pointer without turning your head and pointing it at something. And when you do that, you lose contact with the audience. You don't want to do it. So what do you do if you need to identify something in your image, and you don't want to point at it with a laser? This is what you do. Put a little arrow on there and say, now, look at that guy at the end of arrow number one. You don't need to have a laser pointer to do that. The too heavy crime. When people ask me to review a presentation, I ask them to print it out and lay it out on a table. When they do that, it's easy to see whether the talk is too heavy, too much text, not enough air, not enough white space, not enough imagery. This is a good example of such a talk. Way too heavy. The presenter has taken advantage of small font sizes to get as much on the slide as he wanted. Lots of other crimes here, but the fact that it's too heavy is what I wanted to illustrate. So here, by contrast, another talk, one I gave a few years ago. It wasn't a deeply technical talk, but I show it to you because there's air in it. It's mostly pictures of things. There are three or four slides that have text on them, but when I come to those, I give the audience time to read them. And they're there because they might have some historical significance. The first slide with a lot of text on it is an extraction from the proposal for the 1957 AI Conference at Dartmouth. Extraordinarily interesting event, and that historical extraction from the proposal helps drive that point home. What else have we got here? Oh, yeah, your vocabulary word for the day. This is an apaxilogomenon. What that means is this is the kind of slide you can get away with exactly once in your presentation. This is a slide that got some currency some years ago because it shows the complexity of governing in Afghanistan by showing how impossibly complex it is. It's something you in the audience can't understand, and that's the point. But you can't have many of these. You can have one per work, one per presentation, one per paper, one per book. That's what apaxilogomenon is, and this is an example of it. Well, I've shown you some crimes, and so you might be asking, do these crimes actually occur? So they do. There's the hands in the pockets crime. There's a crime and time and place selection here. This is how you get to the Bartos Theater. First thing you do is you get on these steps over at the Media Lab. Then you cross this large open space. Then you turn right down this corridor. At this point, whenever I go in there, I wonder if there are torture implements around the corner. And then when you get in there, you get into this dark, gloomy place. So it's well-named when they call it the Bartos Theater because it's a place where you can watch a movie, and it's not a place where you can give a talk. Now, on a subject of does it happen, here's a talk I attended a while back in Stata. Notice that the speaker is far away from the slides. Speaker's using a laser pointer. And you say to me, well, what's happening here? It's, by the way, the 80th slide in the presentation. Notice that it stints with words. This is the first of 10 conclusion slides. So what's the audience reaction? That's the sponsor of the meeting. He's reading his email. This is the co-sponsor of the meeting. He's examining the lunch menu. What about this person? This person looks like he's paying attention. But that's because it's a still picture. If you were to see a video, what you would see is something like this. So yeah, it does happen. Well, now, that's a quick review of tools. Now, I want to talk about some special cases. We could talk a little bit about informing, or to say it another way, doing what I'm doing now. But I'll just say a few words about that. In that kind of presentation, you want to start with a promise, like I did for this hour that we're going now. But then it comes to the question of how do you inspire people? I've given this talk for a long time. And a few years ago, our department chairman said, would you please give this talk to a new faculty and be sure to emphasize what it takes to inspire students? And strangely, I hadn't thought about that question before. So I started a survey. I talked to some of my incoming freshman advisees. And I talked to the senior faculty and everything in between about how they've been inspired. What I found from the incoming freshmen is that they were inspired by some high school teacher who told them they could do it. What I found in the senior faculty, they were inspired by someone who helped them to see a problem in a new way. And what I saw from everyone is that they were inspired when someone exhibited passion about what they were doing, exhibited passion about what they were doing. So that's one way to be inspiring. It's easy for me because I do artificial intelligence. And how can you not be interested in artificial intelligence? I mean, if you're not interested in artificial intelligence, you're probably not interested in interesting things. So when I'm lecturing in my AI class, it's natural for me to talk about what I think is cool and how exciting some new idea is. So that's the kind of expression of passion that makes a difference while informing with respect to this question of inspiring. Oh, yeah, and of course, during this promise phase, you can also express how cool stuff is. Let me give you an example of a lecture that starts this way. I'm talking about resource allocation. It's the same sort of stuff you would think of when you're, it's the same sort of ideas you would need if you're allocating aircraft to a flight schedule or trying to schedule a factory or something like that. But the example is putting colors on the states in the United States without any bordering states having the same color. So here goes. This is what I show in the beginning of the class. This is a way of doing that coloring. And you might say, well, why don't we wait till it finishes? Would you like to do that? No? Well, we're not going to wait till it finishes because the sun will have exploded and consumed the Earth before this program finishes. But with a slight adjustment to how the program works, which I tell my students, you will understand in the next 50 minutes, this is what you get. Isn't that cool? You've got to be amazed by stuff that takes a computation from longer than the lifetime of the solar system into.