And God bless America. Now, watch this. Let's go back a little bit and redo it. What I want you to see is that at one point, he seems to be almost pressing his lips together, forcing himself not to say thank you. Then there's another place where he does a little salute. So watch for those this time around. If that is what you want, if that is what you believe, you must vote and you must reelect President Barack Obama. God bless you, and God bless America. That's where he's pressing his lips. There's the salute. Yeah, I think that's pretty good. Now, what are we going to take away from this? Well, I suppose I could conclude this talk by saying, God bless you, and God bless the National Institute of Technology. But it might not work so well. But what you can get out of this is you don't have to say thank you. There are other things you can do. And you know, it's interesting that over time, people figure this out, and there are some stock ways of ending things. So in the Catholic Church, in the good old Latin mass, landed with ete missa est, which translates approximately to, OK, the mass is over. You can go home now. And of course, at musical concerts, you know that it's time to clap, not at the end of the song, but rather when the conductor goes over and shakes hands with the concertmaster. Those are conventions that tell you that the event is over. So those are all possibilities for here. But one more possibility, and that is that you can salute the audience. And by that, I mean you can say something about how much you value your time at a place. So I could say, well, it's been great fun being here. It's been fascinating to see what you folks are doing here at MIT. I've been much stimulated and provoked by the kinds of questions you've been asking. It's been really great, and I look forward to coming back on many occasions in the future. So let's salute to the audience. You can do that. All right. Well, there it is. You know what? I'm glad you're here. And the reason is by being here, I think you have demonstrated an understanding that how you present and how you package your ideas is an important thing. And I salute you for that. And I suggest that you come back again and bring your friends. Thank you. Thank you.