are and feel are effective and ask yourselves why they're successful, then you can build up your own personal repertoire and develop your own personal style. And that's my fundamental objective. And the rest of this talk is about some of the things that are in my armamentarium that I think are effective. So next thing on our agenda as we start to discuss these other things is a discussion of time and place. So what do you think is a good time to have a lecture? 11 AM. Yeah. And the reason is most people at MIT are awake by then, and hardly anyone has gone back to sleep. It's not right after a meal. People aren't fatigued from this or that. It's a great time to have a lecture. So that brings me next to the question of, what about the place? And the most important thing about the place is that it be well lit. This room is well lit. Problem with the other kinds of rooms is that we humans, whenever the lights go down or whenever the room is dimly lighted, it signals that we should go to sleep. So whenever I go somewhere to give a talk, even today, the first thing I do when I speak to the audiovisual people is say, keep the lights full up. Oh, they might reply. People will see the slides better if we turn the lights off. And then I reply, it's extremely hard to see slides through closed eyelids. What else can you say about the place? Well, the place should be cased. And I mean that in the colloquial sense of, like if you're robbing a bank, you would go to the bank some occasions before to see what it's like. So there are no surprises when you do your robbery. So whenever I go somewhere to speak, the first thing I ask my host to do is to take me to the place where I'll be speaking. So if there are any weirdnesses, I'll be able to deal with it. Sometimes it might require some intervention. Sometimes it just might require me to understand what the challenges are. So when I came here this morning, I did what I typically do. I imagined that all the seats were filled with disinterested farm animals. That way I knew that no matter how bad it was, it wouldn't be as bad as that. No. So finally, it should be reasonably populated. It should be the case that if there are 10 people in this hall, everyone would be wondering what's going on that's so much more interesting that nobody's here. So you want to get a right-sized place that doesn't have to be packed, but it has to be more than half full. So those are some thoughts about time and place. Next thing I want to talk about is subject of boards and props and slides. Well, these are the tools of the trade. I believe that this is the right tool for speaking when your purpose is informing. The slides are good when your purpose is exposing. But this is what I use when I'm informing, teaching, lecturing. And there are several reasons why I use it. For one thing, when you use the board, you have a graphic quality. It's the case that when you have a board, then you can easily exploit the fact that you can use graphics in your presentation. So that's a graphic quality that I like. And the next thing I like is I like a speed property. The speed with which you write on the blackboard is approximately the speed at which people can absorb ideas. If you go flipping through a bunch of slides, nobody can go that fast. Finally, one great property of a board is that it can be a target. Many people who are novices at speaking find themselves suddenly aware of their hands. It's as if their hands were private parts that shouldn't be exposed in public. So right away, they go into the pockets. And this is considered insulting in some parts of the world. Or alternatively, maybe the hands will go and back like this. I was once in a convent in Serbia. And my host, well, as soon as we entered, a nun came up to us and offered us a refreshment. And I was about to say, no, thank you, when he said, eat that stuff or die. It's a question of local custom and politeness. But then before anything happened there, the nun pulled my hands off like this because it was extraordinarily insulting in that culture to have your hands behind your back. So why is that? Well, it's usually supposed that it has to do with whether you're concealing a weapon. So if your hands are in your pockets or behind your back, then it looks like you might have a weapon. And that's what I mean by one of these virtues of the board. Now you have something to do with your hands. You can point at the stuff. I was once watching Seymour Papert give a lecture. I thought it was terrific. So I went a second time, first time to absorb the content, second time to note the style. And what I discovered is that Papert was constantly pointing at the board. And then I thought about it a little while, and I noted that none of the stuff he was pointing to had anything to do with what he was saying. Nevertheless, it was an effective technique. So that's just a little bit about the virtue of blackboards. Now I want to talk about props. The custodians of knowledge about props are the playwrights. Many decades ago, I saw a play by Heinrich Ibsen. It was Head of Gabler. I remember vaguely that it was about a woman in an unhappy marriage. And her husband was in competition for an academic job with somebody else. And he was going to lose, partly because he was boring and partly because the competitor had just written a magnificent book. By the way, this is back in the days before there were copying machines and computers. Anyhow, as the play opens, there's a pot-bellied stove. And in the beginning of the play, the pot-bellied stove, with its open door, just has some slightly glowing embers. But the pot-bellied stove is always there. And as tension mounts in the play, and you see this manuscript, this prop that Ibsen so artfully used, you just know that something's going to happen. Because as the play goes on, the fire gets bigger and hotter. And finally, all consuming, you just know that that manuscript is going to go into that fire. It's a memorable thing. It's what I remember about the play. So playwrights have got this all figured out. But on the other hand, they're not the only people who can use props. Here's an example of the use of a prop, also due to Seymour Papert. He was talking about how it's important to look at the problem in the right way. And here's an example that not only teaches that, but makes it possible for you to embarrass your friends in mechanical engineering. So here's what you do. Take a bicycle wheel, and you start it spinning. And then you put some torque on the axle. Or equivalently, you blow on the edge. And the issue is, does it go that way? Or does it go that way? Now, the mechanical engineers will immediately say, oh, yes, I see, right-hand screw wheel. And they'll put their fingers in this position, but forget exactly how to align their fingers with the various aspects of the problem. And so it's usually the case that they get it right with about a 50% probability. So their very fancy education gets them up to the point where they're equivalent to flipping a coin. But it doesn't have to be that way, because you can think about the problem a little differently. So here's what you do. You take some duct tape, and you put it around the part of the wheel like that. And now you start to think about not the whole.