solar system into a few seconds. So that's what I mean by providing a promise up front and expressing some passion about what you're talking about. Well, the last item in this little block here has to do with what people think that they do at MIT. You ask faculty what the most important purpose is, and they'll say, well, the most important thing I do is teach people how to think. And then you say, oh, that's great. How do you teach people how to think? Blank stare. No one can quite respond to that part, that natural next question. So how do you teach people how to think? Well, I believe that we are storytelling animals and that we start developing our story understanding and manipulating skills with fairy tales in childhood and continue on through professional schools like law, business, medicine, engineering, everything. And we continue doing that throughout life. So if that is what thinking is all about, then when you want to teach people how to think, you provide them with the stories they need to know, the questions they need to ask about those stories, mechanisms for analyzing those stories, ways of putting stories together, ways of evaluating how reliable the story is. And that's what I think you need to do when you teach people how to think. But that's all about education. And many of you here, not necessarily for that, but rather for this part, for persuading, which breaks down into several categories, oral exams not shown, job talks, getting famous. I won't say much about oral exams other than the fact that they used to be a lot scarier than they are today. In the old days, reading the literature in a foreign language was part of that, and there was a high failure rate. And when you look back on those failures, the most usual reason for people failing an oral exam is failure to situate and a failure to practice. By situate, I mean it's important to talk about your research in context. This is a problem that's being pursued all over the world. There hasn't been any progress before me in the past 30 years. Everyone is looking for a solution because it will have impact on so many other things. So that's situating in time and place and feel. And then as far as practice is concerned, yes, practice is important. But that doesn't mean showing your slides to the people who share an office with. The problem with that is that if people know what you're doing, they will hallucinate that there's material in your presentation that isn't there. A variation on the scene, by the way, is your faculty supervisor is not a very good person to help you debug a talk. Because they, in fact, know what you're doing, and they will, in fact, hallucinate there's material in your presentation that isn't there. So you need to get together some friends who don't know what you're doing and have them. Well, you start the practice session by saying, if you can't make me cry, I won't value you as a friend anymore. And then when you get to the faculty on a oral exam, it will be easy. You see, the amount of flak you'll get from somebody is proportional to age. The older somebody is, the more they understand where they are in the world. But the young people are trying to show the old people how smart they are, so they'll be vicious. So whenever you have an opportunity to have an examining committee that's full of people with gray hair, that's what you want. Well, that's just a word or two about something I haven't listed here. Let's get into the subject of job talks. So I was sitting in a bar many years ago in San Diego. I was a member of the Navy Science Board. And I was sitting with a couple of my colleagues on the board, Dolores Etter from the University of Colorado. She made me so jealous I could spit, because she'd written 21 books, and I'd only written 17. And then the other one was Bill Weldon from the University of Texas. He was an electromagnetism guy, and he knew how to use rail guns to drive steel rods through tank armor. These were interesting people. So I said, what do you look for in a faculty candidate? And within one microsecond, Dolores said they have to show us they've got some kind of vision, quickly followed by Bill, who said they have to show us that they've done something. Oh, that sounds good, I said. And then I said to them, how long does a candidate have to establish these two things? What do you think? Well, compare your answer to theirs. Five minutes. So if you haven't expressed your vision, if you haven't told people that you've done something, in five minutes, you've already lost. So you have to be able to do that. And let me just mention a couple of things in that connection. Here, the vision is, in part, a problem that somebody cares about and something new in your approach. So the problem is understanding the nature of human intelligence. And the approach is asking questions about what makes us different from chimpanzees and Neanderthals. Is it merely a matter of quantity? Are we just a little bit smarter in some continuous way? Or do we have something that's fundamentally different that chimpanzees don't have, and Neanderthals either? And the answer is, yes, we do have something different. We are symbolic creatures. And because we're symbolic creatures, we can build symbolic descriptions of relations and events. We can string them together and make stories. And because we can make stories, that's what makes us different. So that's my stump speech. That's how I start most of my talks on my own personal research. How do you express the notion that you've done something? By listing the steps that need to be taken in order to achieve the solution of that problem. You don't have to have done all of those steps. But you can say, here's what needs to be done. An example. Here's what needs to be done. We need to specify some behavior. We need to enumerate the constraints that make it possible to deal with that behavior. We have to implement a system because we're engineers and we don't think that we've understood something unless we can build it. And we've built such a system, and we're about to demonstrate it to you today. That would be an example of enumerating a series of steps needed to realize the vision. So then, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then you conclude by enumerating your contributions. It's a kind of mirror of these steps, and it helps to establish that you've done something. So that's a kind of general purpose framework for doing a technical talk. Now, only a few more things left to do today. Getting famous is the next item on our agenda. Because once you've got the job, you need to think a little bit about how you're going to be recognized for what you do. So first of all, why should you care about getting famous? I thought about this in connection with a fundraising event I attended once. Fundraising event for raising money to save Venice from going underwater and having all of its art destroyed. Anyway, I was sitting here, and JC was sitting here. That was the late Julia Child. And as the evening wore on, more and more people would come up and ask Julia to autograph something or express a feeling that she had changed their life. It just happened over and over again. So eventually, I turned to Julia, and I said, Ms. Child, is it fun to be famous? And she thought about it for a second, and she said, you get used to it. But you know what occurred to me? You never get used to being ignored. So here's a way to think about it. Your ideas are like your children. You don't want them to go into the world in rags. So what you want to do is to be sure that you have these techniques, these mechanisms, these thoughts about how to present the ideas that you have so that they're recognized.